# Interactive Interface for Drawing a Network

- Project was initiated at 2021/07/28
- The latest update: 2021/07/29

## Purpose

Create an interactive interface for drawing a network. In this project I hope the interface can achieve several features below:

- [x] Drag the node to directly adjust its position and the positions of edges are updated as well.
- [x] Scroll the mouse wheel to zoom in/out from the central of the figure
- [x] Drag the figure to explore the network 
- [ ] Change the layout of the node position through clicking a button
- [ ] 

 ## Rational

The NetworkX is very convinent library to create and draw a network; however, the layout of node positions is restricted by few algorithms in the library. Even though we can easily customize the node positions by the python code, editting the code back and forth to adjust the figure is quite time-consuming. Moreover, although plotly provides Dash, an interactive interface to draw a network, it doesn't accept the NetworkX object. Hence, I create this matplotlib-based interactive interface for network drawing, which directly uptake NetworkX object without any conversion.

## Requirement

1. NetworkX
2. Matplotlib 
3. NumPy

## What I learn from this project?

1. Familiar with the class object 

   ```python
   class Object(): 
     '''
     You can define the common variables here
     '''
   	def __init__(self, *arg, **kwarg):
     	self.x = 5
       self.y = 6
       self.whatever = arg1
       
     def func1(self, *arg, **kwarg):
       var1 = self.x  
       var2 = self.y    
       var3 = var1*var2
       return var3
     
     def func2(self, *arg, **kwarg):
       var1, var2 = self.x, self.y
       var3 = var1/var2*self.whatever
       self.whatever = var3
   
   whatever = 6
   O = Object(whatever)
   x = O.func1()
   y = O.whatever
   O.func2()
   z = O.whatever
   print(x, y, z)
   #30, 6, 5
   ```

2. Integrate the code from others into my project

   You may want to achieve a lot of functions but it is difficult to find an example that fullfill all the goals. Thus you need to understand the code of each example and incorporate them together. 

3. Play with Matplotlib object by accessing the source code 

   To understand the code, you should know what type of object you're operating and know what functions provided by the library would be useful. 

   1. Using type() to check the type of the object
   2. Accesss the source code of the libray to see the function built in the object

4. Familiar with the mouse event

   This is the most fun part of the project. For example, you need to decompose a seemly easy movement, like drag an object, into several steps: press click, move mouse, and release mouse. 

5. User interface and user experience are not easy to optimize

   Even though you achieve the function you want, you still need to spend lots of time to adjust the parameters for better user experience, such as smoothly drag and intuitive response.

6. A little bit about pyinstaller 

   You should wrap up the project in a virtual environment to reduce the size of the program. 

   Plus, there are two main ways to wrap up your program:

   pyinstaller -F filename.py  => A single executable file. ~33.5MB

   pyinstaller -D filename.py  =>A dictionary contains all the required library and a executable file. ~100MB

   Although the size of the folder generated by -D is larger than single file, you can easily compress the folder into ~33.5MB .zip. Moreover, it takes less time to run the initialize the program after your first run while the running time of a single excutable file is long all the way. 

   

7. It's not easy letting other people run your program due to the security issue.  

   First, check if the OS of yours and others' is the same. Windows, MacOS, Linux... 

   Second, 64-bit or 32-bit of the OS. 

   Third, force your computer to execute the file:

   - Open the terminal

   - You need to change the mode of the file to make it executable

     ```bash
     chmod u+x filename
     ```

   - Run the file 

     ```
     ./filename
     ```

   - Open the setting>Security & Privacy>General>Allow apps downloaded from, check open anyway
